#summary This page will show you the steps to install TrueCrypt from yarik-overlay.

== Introduction ==

Now TrueCrypt is masked in the official tree due to legal problems.

*/usr/portage/profiles/package.mask*:
{{{
# Daniel Black <dragonheart@gentoo.org> (4 Nov 2008)
# Legal problems #241650 causing distribution problems #245322 and build problems #237493
app-crypt/truecrypt
}}}

This page will show you the steps to install TrueCrypt from yarik-overlay. 

== About TrueCrypt ==

TrueCrypt is an open-source cross-platform software allowing you to manage encrypted disks. The main features are its creation of virtual encrypted disks and the encryption of entire partitions. There are two different security levels available: The hidden volume and the normal volume. See the official website for details.

== Install ==

 # Install yarik-overlay.
 # Add `app-crypt/truecrypt` in <b>/etc/portage/package.unmask</b>
 # Add `app-crypt/truecrypt` in <b>/etc/portage/package.keywords</b>
 # Run `emerge -av truecrypt` and follow instructions^1^:
 * Download tar.gz source from http://www.truecrypt.org/downloads2.php. 
 Then put the file in <b>/usr/portage/distfiles/truecrypt-6.1.tar.gz</b>
 * Download RSA Security Inc. PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface (Cryptoki) 2.20 in <b>/usr/portage/distfiles</b>:
{{{
cd /usr/portage/distfiles
wget ftp://ftp.rsasecurity.com/pub/pkcs/pkcs-11/v2-20/pkcs11.h
wget ftp://ftp.rsasecurity.com/pub/pkcs/pkcs-11/v2-20/pkcs11f.h
wget ftp://ftp.rsasecurity.com/pub/pkcs/pkcs-11/v2-20/pkcs11t.h
}}}
 * Run `emerge -av truecrypt`

1. Instructions might differ from below.